The capital of Afghanistan is Kabul. Located in South-Central Asia; ethnically diverse with Pashtun, Tajik, Hazara communities.
The capital of Albania is Tirana. Located in the western Balkans on the Adriatic; majority Albanian, mix of Muslim and Christian traditions.
The capital of Algeria is Algiers. Located in North Africa on the Mediterranean coast; Arab-Berber majority, Arabic and French widely used.
The capital of Andorra is Andorra la Vella. Located high in the Pyrenees between France and Spain; Catalan-speaking microstate with tourism-focused economy.
The capital of Angola is Luanda. Located on the southwest Atlantic coast of Africa; largely Bantu peoples, Portuguese-speaking.
The capital of Antigua and Barbuda is St. John's. Located in the eastern Caribbean; predominantly Afro-Caribbean population, English-speaking.
The capital of Argentina is Buenos Aires. Located in southeastern South America on the Río de la Plata; largely of European descent, Spanish-speaking.
The capital of Armenia is Yerevan. Located in the South Caucasus; ethnically Armenian and predominantly Christian.
The capital of Australia is Canberra. Located in southeastern Australia (Oceania); multicultural, English-speaking nation with Indigenous heritage.
The capital of Austria is Vienna. Located in Central Europe; German-speaking, historically Habsburg-influenced culture.
The capital of Azerbaijan is Baku. Located at the Caspian Sea in the South Caucasus; majority Azeri (Turkic), Muslim-majority country.
The capital of the Bahamas is Nassau. Located in the Atlantic Ocean off Florida in the Caribbean region; English-speaking, Afro-Caribbean majority.
The capital of Bahrain is Manama. Located on an island in the Persian Gulf; Arab-majority, Persian and Arabic cultural influences.
The capital of Bangladesh is Dhaka. Located in South Asia on the Bengal delta; densely populated, Bengali-speaking majority.
The capital of Barbados is Bridgetown. Located in the eastern Caribbean; English-speaking, Afro-Caribbean majority.
The capital of Belarus is Minsk. Located in Eastern Europe; East Slavic population, Russian and Belarusian languages.
The capital of Belgium is Brussels. Located in Western Europe; multilingual (Dutch, French, German), culturally diverse and EU hub.
The capital of Belize is Belmopan. Located in Central America; English-speaking, diverse Maya and Afro-Caribbean populations.
The capital of Benin is Porto-Novo (official) and Cotonou (seat of government). Located in West Africa on the Gulf of Guinea; diverse West African ethnic groups.
The capital of Bhutan is Thimphu. Located in the Eastern Himalayas in South Asia; predominantly ethnically Bhutanese, Buddhist-majority.
The constitutional capital of Bolivia is Sucre, and the seat of government is La Paz. Located in central South America; indigenous (Quechua, Aymara) and mestizo populations.
The capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina is Sarajevo. Located in the western Balkans; ethnically mixed (Bosniak, Serb, Croat) with Muslim and Christian communities.
The capital of Botswana is Gaborone. Located in southern Africa; majority Tswana people, English widely used.
The capital of Brazil is Brasília. Located in central-eastern South America; highly diverse population with Portuguese language.
The capital of Brunei is Bandar Seri Begawan. Located on the island of Borneo in Southeast Asia; Malay-majority, Islamic monarchy.
The capital of Bulgaria is Sofia. Located in southeastern Europe on the Balkans; majority ethnic Bulgarian, Slavic culture.
The capital of Burkina Faso is Ouagadougou. Located in West Africa; multiple ethnic groups, French is official language.
The capital of Burundi is Gitega (political) and Bujumbura (economic). Located in the African Great Lakes region; Hutu and Tutsi major groups.
The capital of Cabo Verde (Cape Verde) is Praia. Located on islands off West Africa in the Atlantic; Creole culture, Portuguese language.
The capital of Cambodia is Phnom Penh. Located in mainland Southeast Asia; Khmer-majority, Buddhist-majority society.
The capital of Cameroon is Yaoundé. Located in Central Africa; diverse ethnic groups, bilingual French and English influences.
The capital of Canada is Ottawa. Located in eastern Ontario in North America; multilingual (English/French), multicultural population.
The capital of the Central African Republic is Bangui. Located in central Africa; diverse ethnic groups, many indigenous communities.
The capital of Chad is N'Djamena. Located in north-central Africa; mix of Arab and sub-Saharan African ethnic groups.
The capital of Chile is Santiago. Located along the western edge of South America by the Andes; predominantly mestizo and European descent.
The capital of China is Beijing. Located in East Asia; Han-majority population, large and diverse urban centers.
The capital of Colombia is Bogotá. Located in northwestern South America in the Andes; mestizo-majority with Indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities.
The capital of Comoros is Moroni. Located on islands in the Indian Ocean between Madagascar and Mozambique; Swahili-Arabic cultural mix.
The capital of the Republic of the Congo is Brazzaville. Located in Central Africa on the Congo River; Bantu peoples predominate.
The capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is Kinshasa. Located in Central Africa on the Congo River; extremely diverse, many Bantu groups.
The capital of Costa Rica is San José. Located in Central America; Spanish-speaking, relatively stable with diverse biodiversity.
The capital of Côte d'Ivoire is Yamoussoukro (official) with Abidjan as the major economic center. Located in West Africa; many ethnic groups, French-speaking.
The capital of Croatia is Zagreb. Located on the Adriatic in the western Balkans; predominantly ethnic Croat, Slavic language.
The capital of Cuba is Havana. Located in the Caribbean; Spanish-speaking, Afro-Cuban and European influences.
The capital of Cyprus is Nicosia. Located in the eastern Mediterranean; Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities, divided de facto.
The capital of Czechia is Prague. Located in Central Europe; Czech-speaking, Central European culture.
The capital of Denmark is Copenhagen. Located in Northern Europe on the Jutland peninsula and islands; Danish-speaking, Nordic culture.
The capital of Djibouti is Djibouti City. Located in the Horn of Africa on the Red Sea/Gulf of Aden; Afro-Arab population, strategic port.
The capital of Dominica is Roseau. Located in the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean; English-speaking, Afro-Caribbean majority.
The capital of the Dominican Republic is Santo Domingo. Located on Hispaniola in the Caribbean; Spanish-speaking, mixed European and African heritage.
The capital of Ecuador is Quito. Located in northwestern South America in the Andes; mestizo-majority with Indigenous populations.
The capital of Egypt is Cairo. Located in northeast Africa near the Nile delta; Arab-majority, long Egyptian cultural history.
The capital of El Salvador is San Salvador. Located in Central America; predominantly mestizo, Spanish-speaking.
The capital of Equatorial Guinea is Malabo (on Bioko island) with planned administrative capital in Oyala (Ciudad de la Paz). Located in Central Africa; Spanish-speaking minority, diverse ethnic groups.
The capital of Eritrea is Asmara. Located in the Horn of Africa on the Red Sea; multiple ethnic groups, Eritrean and Tigrinya languages.
The capital of Estonia is Tallinn. Located in Northern Europe on the Baltic Sea; Estonian-speaking, strong digital society.
The capitals of Eswatini are Mbabane (administrative) and Lobamba (royal and legislative). Located in southern Africa; Swazi-majority, English and Swazi used.
The capital of Ethiopia is Addis Ababa. Located in the Horn of Africa; ethnically diverse (Oromo, Amhara, Tigray), many languages.
The capital of the Federated States of Micronesia is Palikir. Located in the western Pacific Ocean (Oceania); Micronesian island cultures.
The capital of Fiji is Suva. Located on islands in the South Pacific; indigenous Fijian and Indo-Fijian communities.
The capital of Finland is Helsinki. Located in Northern Europe on the Baltic Sea; Finnish-speaking with a strong Nordic welfare system.
The capital of France is Paris. Located in Western Europe; French-speaking, culturally influential with diverse urban population.
The capital of Gabon is Libreville. Located on the west coast of Central Africa; Bantu-majority, French-speaking.
The capital of The Gambia is Banjul. Located in West Africa along the Gambia River; diverse ethnic groups, English official language.
The capital of Georgia is Tbilisi. Located at the crossroads of Eastern Europe and Western Asia in the Caucasus; predominantly Georgian with unique language and Orthodox Christian tradition.
The capital of Germany is Berlin. Located in Central Europe; German-speaking, diverse and economically powerful.
The capital of Ghana is Accra. Located on the Gulf of Guinea in West Africa; Akan and other ethnic groups, English-speaking.
The capital of Greece is Athens. Located in Southeastern Europe on the Aegean; Greek-speaking, rich ancient history.
The capital of Grenada is St. George's. Located in the Caribbean; English-speaking, Afro-Caribbean majority.
The capital of Guatemala is Guatemala City. Located in Central America; large mestizo and Indigenous Maya populations.
The capital of Guinea is Conakry. Located on the West African Atlantic coast; several West African ethnic groups, French-speaking.
The capital of Guinea-Bissau is Bissau. Located on the West African coast; diverse ethnic groups, Portuguese official language.
The capital of Guyana is Georgetown. Located on the northern coast of South America; ethnically diverse (Indo-Guyanese, Afro-Guyanese), English-speaking.
The capital of Haiti is Port-au-Prince. Located on the island of Hispaniola in the Caribbean; French and Haitian Creole-speaking, Afro-Caribbean majority.
The capital of Honduras is Tegucigalpa. Located in Central America; mestizo-majority, Spanish-speaking.
The capital of Hungary is Budapest. Located in Central Europe; Hungarian-speaking, distinct Uralic language and culture.
The capital of Iceland is Reykjavík. Located in the North Atlantic; small population, Icelandic language and Nordic culture.
The capital of India is New Delhi. Located in South Asia; extremely populous and diverse with many languages and religions.
The capital of Indonesia is Jakarta. Located on the island of Java in Southeast Asia; ethnically diverse, Malay-related languages and Islam major religion.
The capital of Iran is Tehran. Located in Western Asia; Persian-majority, Shia Islam predominates.
The capital of Iraq is Baghdad. Located in Western Asia on the Tigris River; ethnically diverse with Arabs, Kurds, and others.
The capital of Ireland is Dublin. Located in northwestern Europe on the island of Ireland; Irish and English cultural heritage.
The capital of Israel is Jerusalem (declared). Located in the Eastern Mediterranean; diverse Jewish majority and significant Arab minority; status internationally contested.
The capital of Italy is Rome. Located in Southern Europe on the Mediterranean; Italian-speaking, rich historical legacy.
The capital of Jamaica is Kingston. Located in the Caribbean; English-speaking, Afro-Caribbean majority with vibrant music culture.
The capital of Japan is Tokyo. Located in East Asia; homogeneous ethnic Japanese majority with modern urban society.
The capital of Jordan is Amman. Located in the Levant region of Western Asia; Arab-majority, diverse refugee populations.
The capital of Kazakhstan is Astana (formerly Nur-Sultan). Located in Central Asia; majority Kazakh with Russian minority, Turkic language family.
The capital of Kenya is Nairobi. Located in East Africa; diverse ethnic groups including Kikuyu and Luo, English and Swahili widely used.
The capital of Kiribati is South Tarawa. Located on atolls in the central Pacific Ocean (Oceania); Micronesian and Polynesian island cultures.
The capital of North Korea is Pyongyang. Located on the Korean Peninsula in East Asia; ethnically Korean, highly centralized state.
The capital of South Korea is Seoul. Located on the Korean Peninsula in East Asia; ethnically Korean, highly urbanized and tech-forward.
The capital of Kosovo is Pristina. Located in the central Balkans; majority ethnic Albanian, declared independence (partially recognized internationally).
The capital of Kuwait is Kuwait City. Located on the northern edge of Eastern Arabia on the Persian Gulf; Arab-majority, oil-rich state.
The capital of Kyrgyzstan is Bishkek. Located in Central Asia near the Tien Shan mountains; majority Kyrgyz (Turkic), Russian influences.
The capital of Laos is Vientiane. Located in mainland Southeast Asia; Lao-majority, Buddhist-majority country.
The capital of Latvia is Riga. Located on the Baltic Sea in Northern Europe; Latvian-speaking, significant Russian minority.
The capital of Lebanon is Beirut. Located on the eastern Mediterranean; ethnically and religiously diverse (Muslim, Christian, Druze).
The capital of Lesotho is Maseru. Located as an enclave within South Africa in southern Africa; Basotho-majority, Sotho language.
The capital of Liberia is Monrovia. Located on the West African Atlantic coast; diverse indigenous groups and English official language.
The capital of Libya is Tripoli. Located in North Africa on the Mediterranean; Arab-Berber population, Arabic-speaking.
The capital of Liechtenstein is Vaduz. Located in the Alps between Switzerland and Austria; German-speaking microstate.
The capital of Lithuania is Vilnius. Located in Northern Europe on the Baltic; Lithuanian-speaking, Baltic nation.
The capital of Luxembourg is Luxembourg City. Located in Western Europe; multilingual (Luxembourgish, French, German), affluent financial center.
The capital of Madagascar is Antananarivo. Located off the southeast coast of Africa in the Indian Ocean; Malagasy-majority with unique biodiversity.
The capital of Malawi is Lilongwe. Located in southeastern Africa near Lake Malawi; majority Chewa and other Bantu groups.
The capital of Malaysia is Kuala Lumpur (official), with Putrajaya as the federal administrative center. Located in Southeast Asia; Malay-majority with Chinese and Indian minorities.
The capital of the Maldives is Malé. Located on atolls in the Indian Ocean; ethnically Maldivian, Muslim-majority island nation.
The capital of Mali is Bamako. Located in West Africa; diverse Sahelian ethnic groups, French official language.
The capital of Malta is Valletta. Located in the central Mediterranean; Maltese and English languages, Mediterranean culture.
The capital of the Marshall Islands is Majuro. Located in the central Pacific Ocean; Micronesian island culture.
The capital of Mauritania is Nouakchott. Located in Northwest Africa along the Atlantic; Arab-Berber and sub-Saharan influences.
The capital of Mauritius is Port Louis. Located on an island in the Indian Ocean; ethnically diverse with Indian, African, Chinese and European influences.
The capital of Mexico is Mexico City. Located in North America on a high plateau; large mestizo-majority population, Spanish-speaking.
The capital of the Federated States of Micronesia is Palikir. Located in the western Pacific Ocean; islander cultures.
The capital of Moldova is Chișinău. Located in Eastern Europe between Romania and Ukraine; Romanian-speaking majority with Russian minority.
The capital of Monaco is Monaco (the city-state). Located on the French Riviera in Western Europe; small, affluent, French-speaking.
The capital of Mongolia is Ulaanbaatar. Located in East-Central Asia between Russia and China; Mongol-majority with nomadic traditions.
The capital of Montenegro is Podgorica. Located in the western Balkans on the Adriatic hinterland; majority Montenegrin/Serb, Slavic culture.
The capital of Morocco is Rabat. Located in North Africa on the Atlantic/Mediterranean; Arab-Berber majority, Arabic and Amazigh languages.
The capital of Mozambique is Maputo. Located on the southeast African Indian Ocean coast; Bantu-majority, Portuguese-speaking.
The capital of Myanmar is Naypyidaw. Located in Southeast Asia between India and Thailand; diverse ethnic groups with Bamar majority.
The capital of Namibia is Windhoek. Located in southern Africa; diverse ethnic groups, German and English historical influences.
The capital of Nauru is Yaren (de facto). Located in Micronesia in the central Pacific; tiny island nation with Nauruan people.
The capital of Nepal is Kathmandu. Located in the Himalayas between India and China; multiethnic with Hindu and Buddhist traditions.
The capital of the Netherlands is Amsterdam (constitutional), while The Hague is the seat of government. Located in Western Europe; Dutch-speaking, highly urbanized.
The capital of New Zealand is Wellington. Located in Oceania on the North Island; Māori and European-descended populations, English and Māori languages.
The capital of Nicaragua is Managua. Located in Central America; mestizo-majority, Spanish-speaking.
The capital of Niger is Niamey. Located in West Africa within the Sahel; multiple ethnic groups, French official language.
The capital of Nigeria is Abuja. Located in West Africa; extremely diverse with Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo and many others.
The capital of North Macedonia is Skopje. Located in the central Balkans; majority ethnic Macedonian, Slavic language.
The capital of Norway is Oslo. Located in Northern Europe on the Skagerrak; Norwegian-speaking, Nordic welfare state.
The capital of Oman is Muscat. Located on the southeastern Arabian Peninsula along the Gulf of Oman; Arab-majority, maritime history.
The capital of Pakistan is Islamabad. Located in South Asia; ethnically diverse with Punjabi, Pashtun, Sindhi groups, Muslim-majority.
The capital of Palau is Ngerulmud. Located in the western Pacific Ocean; Micronesian island culture.
The capital of Panama is Panama City. Located at the crossroads of Central and South America adjacent to the Panama Canal; Spanish-speaking, diverse population.
The capital of Papua New Guinea is Port Moresby. Located in Oceania on the eastern half of New Guinea island; extremely diverse with hundreds of languages.
The capital of Paraguay is Asunción. Located in central South America; mestizo-majority with Guarani cultural influence.
The capital of Peru is Lima. Located on the Pacific coast of western South America; mestizo-majority with strong Indigenous Andean presence.
The capital of the Philippines is Manila. Located in Southeast Asia in the western Pacific; ethnically diverse, Filipino and English widely used.
The capital of Poland is Warsaw. Located in Central Europe; Polish-speaking, Slavic culture.
The capital of Portugal is Lisbon. Located on the Atlantic coast of Southwestern Europe; Portuguese-speaking, maritime history.
The capital of Qatar is Doha. Located on the Persian Gulf in the Arabian Peninsula; Arab-majority, oil and gas wealth.
The capital of Romania is Bucharest. Located in Southeastern Europe; Romanian-speaking, Latin-rooted language.
The capital of Russia is Moscow. Located in Eastern Europe/Northern Asia; multiethnic with Russian majority.
The capital of Rwanda is Kigali. Located in the African Great Lakes region; majority Hutu and Tutsi communities, densely populated.
The capital of Saint Kitts and Nevis is Basseterre. Located in the Caribbean; English-speaking, Afro-Caribbean majority.
The capital of Saint Lucia is Castries. Located in the Caribbean; English-speaking, Afro-Caribbean majority with French Creole influence.
The capital of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is Kingstown. Located in the Caribbean; English-speaking, Afro-Caribbean majority.
The capital of Samoa is Apia. Located in the South Pacific (Oceania); Polynesian culture, Samoan language.
The capital of San Marino is San Marino (city). Located enclaved within Italy in Southern Europe; Italian-speaking microstate with medieval heritage.
The capital of São Tomé and Príncipe is São Tomé. Located on islands off the west coast of Central Africa in the Gulf of Guinea; Portuguese-speaking, Afro-Portuguese culture.
The capital of Saudi Arabia is Riyadh. Located on the Arabian Peninsula in Western Asia; Arab-majority, Islamic kingdom.
The capital of Senegal is Dakar. Located on the Cape Verde Peninsula on the Atlantic coast of West Africa; Wolof and other groups, French used widely.
The capital of Serbia is Belgrade. Located in the central Balkans; Serb majority, Slavic language and culture.
The capital of the Seychelles is Victoria. Located on islands in the Indian Ocean; Creole culture with African, Asian and European influences.
The capital of Sierra Leone is Freetown. Located on the West African coast; multiple ethnic groups, English official language.
The capital of Singapore is Singapore (city-state). Located at the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula in Southeast Asia; multiethnic, highly urbanized and English-speaking.
The capital of Slovakia is Bratislava. Located in Central Europe; Slovak-speaking, neighboring Austria and Hungary.
The capital of Slovenia is Ljubljana. Located in Central Europe at the meeting of the Alps and the Mediterranean; Slovene-speaking.
The capital of the Solomon Islands is Honiara. Located in Oceania east of Papua New Guinea; Melanesian cultures and many local languages.
The capital of Somalia is Mogadishu. Located in the Horn of Africa on the Indian Ocean; Somali-majority, Somali language and Islam.
The capitals of South Africa are Pretoria (administrative), Cape Town (legislative) and Bloemfontein (judicial). Located at the southern tip of Africa; diverse population with many ethnic groups.
The capital of South Sudan is Juba. Located in East-Central Africa; many ethnic groups, emerged as an independent state in 2011.
The capital of Spain is Madrid. Located in Southwestern Europe on the Iberian Peninsula; Spanish-speaking, diverse regional cultures.
The capital of Sri Lanka is Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte (legislative) with Colombo as the commercial center. Located in the Indian Ocean near southern India; Sinhalese and Tamil populations.
The capital of Sudan is Khartoum. Located in northeast Africa at the confluence of the Blue and White Nile; Arab and African influences.
The capital of Suriname is Paramaribo. Located on the northern coast of South America; ethnically diverse with East Indian, Javanese, Afro-Surinamese communities, Dutch-speaking.
The capital of Sweden is Stockholm. Located in Northern Europe on the Baltic Sea; Swedish-speaking, Nordic welfare state.
The capital of Switzerland is Bern (federal). Located in Central Europe; multilingual (German, French, Italian, Romansh), strong federal traditions.
The capital of Syria is Damascus. Located in the Levant of Western Asia; Arab-majority with diverse minority groups, long history.
The capital of Taiwan is Taipei. Located off the southeast coast of China in East Asia; predominantly Han Chinese culture and language (Mandarin).
The capital of Tajikistan is Dushanbe. Located in Central Asia; majority Tajik (Persian-speaking), mountainous country.
The capital of Tanzania is Dodoma (official), with Dar es Salaam as the major economic center. Located in East Africa; many ethnic groups, Swahili widely used.
The capital of Thailand is Bangkok. Located in Southeast Asia; Thai-majority, Buddhist-majority culture.
The capital of Timor-Leste is Dili. Located on the eastern half of the island of Timor in Southeast Asia; Austronesian and Portuguese influences.
The capital of Togo is Lomé. Located on the Gulf of Guinea in West Africa; multiple ethnic groups, French official language.
The capital of Tonga is Nukuʻalofa. Located in the South Pacific; Polynesian culture and monarchy.
The capital of Trinidad and Tobago is Port of Spain. Located in the southern Caribbean near Venezuela; ethnically diverse (Indo-Trinidadian, Afro-Trinidadian), English-speaking.
The capital of Tunisia is Tunis. Located in North Africa on the Mediterranean; Arab-Berber majority, Arabic-speaking.
The capital of Turkey is Ankara. Located at the crossroads of Europe and Asia; majority Turkish, Muslim-majority.
The capital of Turkmenistan is Ashgabat. Located in Central Asia; Turkmen-majority, Turkic language.
The capital of Tuvalu is Funafuti. Located in the central Pacific Ocean; Polynesian island culture.
The capital of Uganda is Kampala. Located in East Africa near Lake Victoria; many ethnic groups, English and Swahili used.
The capital of Ukraine is Kyiv. Located in Eastern Europe; Ukrainian-speaking majority with diverse regions.
The capital of the United Arab Emirates is Abu Dhabi. Located on the southeastern Arabian Peninsula; Arab-majority with large expatriate communities.
The capital of the United Kingdom is London. Located in Western Europe; English-speaking, highly diverse global city.
The capital of the United States is Washington, D.C. Located on the east coast of North America; highly diverse population and federal institutions.
The capital of Uruguay is Montevideo. Located on the southeastern coast of South America; Spanish-speaking, European-influenced population.
The capital of Uzbekistan is Tashkent. Located in Central Asia; majority Uzbek (Turkic), historically Silk Road cultures.
The capital of Vanuatu is Port Vila. Located in the South Pacific; Melanesian cultures with many local languages.
The capital of Vatican City is Vatican City (the city-state). Located within Rome, Italy; the papal and Catholic administrative center.
The capital of Venezuela is Caracas. Located on the northern coast of South America; Spanish-speaking, diverse urban population.
The capital of Vietnam is Hanoi. Located in Southeast Asia on the Red River; Vietnamese-majority, long cultural history.
The capital of Yemen is Sana'a (de jure) with Aden used as a temporary capital by some authorities; located on the southern Arabian Peninsula with Arab-majority population.
The capital of Zambia is Lusaka. Located in southern Africa; Bantu-majority, English official language.
The capital of Zimbabwe is Harare. Located in southern Africa; many Bantu peoples, English and native languages in use.